# OpenBao Plugin: Azure Secrets Backend

This is a standalone backend plugin for use with [OpenBao](https://www.github.com/openbao/openbao).
This plugin allows for Azure Managed Service Identities to authenticate with OpenBao.

## Getting Started

This is an [OpenBao plugin](https://openbao.org/docs/plugins/)
and is meant to work with OpenBao. This guide assumes you have already installed Openbao
and have a basic understanding of how OpenBao works.

Otherwise, first read this guide on how to [get started with
OpenBao](https://openbao.org/docs/get-started/developer-qs/).

To learn specifically about how plugins work, see documentation on [OpenBao plugins](https://openbao.org/docs/plugins/).

## Usage

Please see [documentation for the plugin](./docs/index.md) in this repository.

## Developing

If you wish to work on this plugin, you'll first need
[Go](https://www.golang.org) installed on your machine.

### Build Plugin

If you're developing for the first time, run `make bootstrap` to install the
necessary tools. Bootstrap will also update repository name references if that
has not been performed ever before.

```sh
$ make bootstrap
```

To compile a development version of this plugin, run `make` or `make dev`.
This will put the plugin binary in the `bin` and `$GOPATH/bin` folders. `dev`
mode will only generate the binary for your platform and is faster:

```sh
$ make
$ make dev
```

Put the plugin binary into a location of your choice. This directory
will be specified as the [`plugin_directory`](https://openbao.org/docs/configuration/#parameters)
in the OpenBao config used to start the server.

```json
plugin_directory = "path/to/plugin/directory"
```

### Register Plugin

Start a OpenBao server with this config file:

```sh
$ bao server -dev -config=path/to/config.hcl ...
...
```

Or start a OpenBao server in dev mode:

```sh
$ bao server -dev -dev-root-token-id=root -dev-plugin-dir="path/to/plugin/directory"
```

Once the server is started, register the plugin in the OpenBao server's [plugin catalog](https://openbao.org/docs/plugins/plugin-architecture/#plugin-catalog):

```sh

$ bao plugin register \
        -sha256=<SHA256 Hex value of the plugin binary> \
        -command="openbao-plugin-secrets-azure" \
        secret \
        azure
...
Success! Data written to: sys/plugins/catalog/azure
```

Note you should generate a new sha256 checksum if you have made changes
to the plugin. Example using openssl:

```sh
openssl dgst -sha256 $GOPATH/openbao-plugin-secrets-azure
...
SHA256(.../go/bin/openbao-plugin-secrets-azure)= 896c13c0f5305daed381952a128322e02bc28a57d0c862a78cbc2ea66e8c6fa1
```

Enable the plugin backend using the secrets enable plugin command:

```sh
$ bao secrets enable -plugin-name='azure' plugin
...

Successfully enabled 'plugin' at 'azure'!
```

### Azure Environment Setup

A Terraform [configuration](bootstrap/terraform) is included in this repository that
automates provisioning of Azure resources necessary to configure the secrets engine.
By default, the resources are created in `westus2`. See [variables.tf](bootstrap/terraform/variables.tf) 
for the available variables.

Before applying the Terraform configuration, you'll need to:

1. [Authenticate](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs#authenticating-to-azure)
   the Terraform provider to Azure

The Terraform configuration will create:

* An app registration with necessary API permissions
* A service principal with necessary role assignments

To provision the Azure resources, run the following:

```sh
$ make setup-env   
```

The `local_environment_setup.sh` file will be created in the `bootstrap/terraform`
directory as a result of running `make setup-env`. This file contains environment
variables needed to configure the secrets engine. The values can also be accessed
via `terraform output`.

Once you're finished with plugin development, you can run the following to
destroy the Azure resources:

```sh
$ make teardown-env   
```

### Configure Plugin

A [scripted configuration](bootstrap/configure.sh) of the plugin is provided in
this repository. You can use the script or manually configure the secrets engine
using documentation.

To apply the scripted configuration, first source the environment variables generated by
the Azure environment setup:

```sh
$ source ./bootstrap/terraform/local_environment_setup.sh
```

Next, run the `make configure` target to register, enable, and configure the plugin with
your local OpenBao instance. You can specify the plugin name, plugin directory, and mount
path. Default values from the Makefile will be used if arguments aren't provided.

```sh
$ PLUGIN_NAME=openbao-plugin-secrets-azure \
  PLUGIN_DIR=$GOPATH/openbao-plugins \
  PLUGIN_PATH=local-secrets-azure \
  make configure
```

#### Tests

If you are developing this plugin and want to verify it is still
functioning (and you haven't broken anything else), we recommend
running the tests.

To run the tests, invoke `make test`:

```sh
$ make test
```

You can also specify a `TESTARGS` variable to filter tests like so:

```sh
$ make test TESTARGS='--run=TestConfig'
```

#### Acceptance Tests

This repository contains acceptance tests that interact with real Azure resources. There
are acceptance tests written in Go and [bats](https://bats-core.readthedocs.io/en/stable).

##### Go

To run the Go acceptance tests, run the following:

```sh
$ make testacc 
```

##### Bats

Acceptance tests requires Azure access, and the following to be installed:
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
- [Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli)
- [bats](https://bats-core.readthedocs.io/en/stable)

_You will need to be properly logged in to Azure with your subscription set. See
['Azure Provider: Authenticating using the Azure CLI'](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/guides/azure_cli)_
for more information.

```sh
$ make test-acceptance AZURE_TENANT_ID=<your_tenant_id>
```

Setting `WITH_DEV_PLUGIN=` will use the provided builtin plugin. The default behavior is to build and register
the plugin from the working directory.

```sh
$ make test-acceptance AZURE_TENANT_ID=<your_tenant_id>
```

The `test-acceptance` make target also accepts the following environment based directives:

* `TESTS_FILTER`: a regex of Bats tests to run, useful when you only want to run a subset of the tests.
